All right, ladies and gentlemen,
thank you all for coming today.
Good to see you up bright
and early in the morning.
I'm up awake.
We are going to be talking about Bonjour,
and we're going to be talking
about four things today.
We'll start off with a recap,
because I'm sure most of you in
the audience know what Bonjour is,
but not all of you will know
the details of how it works.
So we'll start with that.
Then I'm going to tell you about
what's new in Leopard and other news.
I'll show a few demos.
I know you all expect by now
to see a few cool demo toys,
and I won't be disappointing you.
And then I'm finally going to run
through setting up wide very bonjour,
because that's the question we get a lot.
So, the recap.
Bonjour is about using TCP/IP and
Ethernet and Airport 802.11 Wireless,
but with the ease of use
that we expect of USB.
Ethernet cables can be 100 meters
long instead of 5 meters with USB.
You can connect hundreds or
thousands of devices to Ethernet.
The speeds go up to gigabit.
Clearly, there are big benefits there.
By solving the ease of use,
we make that possible to use Ethernet
really as a viable substitute for
products that today would use USB or
FireWire or Bluetooth or IRDA.
So why Bonjour?
We want to make network
products that are a joy to use,
not a frustration.
And I have a real story
to tell you today.
A friend of mine bought a USB printer,
wanted to put it on the network because
he has more than one computer at home,
and he was in Fry's Electronics,
and he saw the Apple Airport Express base
station was there for $130,
but next to it was another
company's print server for $80.
And he told me afterwards
he felt really foolish.
He said he should know better.
He knows me.
He knows about Bonjour.
But he bought the $80 one.
I'm not going to name the company.
Don't want to be picking on
anybody in particular here.
But it took him five hours
to get this thing set up.
And he went through-- well, for a start,
it had a wizard that
only runs on Windows.
So he runs his Windows machine,
and he goes through all the steps.
And first thing it does is destroy
all of his network settings and
change them to something else.
And then he goes through all the steps,
and the screen says, failed.
Maybe you have a firewall.
So he thinks, well, I do have a firewall.
I don't see why it would
block outgoing connections,
but maybe.
Maybe.
So he disables the firewall
and does the whole thing again.
And it still says failed.
And this guy's a smart guy.
His time is worth more than $10 an hour.
So why did he buy this product?
And I think partly it's
because we're all optimists.
To use computer products today,
you really have to be an optimist.
You have to be expecting
things to go well.
And at no point in that setup wizard did
it tell him-- they should have signs,
like when you're at Disneyland,
that says, only five more hours
to go from this point.
But of course, they don't even know that,
because they don't know how many
dead ends and failures and reboots
and restarts and uninstalls and
reinstalls you're going to go
through before you get it to work.
So after spending five
hours getting it set up,
he then wanted to print from his Mac.
And in the 300-page manual,
there was nothing about the Mac,
but he went on the web and he
found this 11-page addendum for
how to set it up with the Mac.
And it just goes on, page after page,
little circles and arrows,
and click the plus button, and type in.
L1 for the name, and L1 for the queue,
and L1 for the location,
and on and on and on.
And then you have to
click Installable Options.
And then you have to go and edit the
name and location you just set up.
The location has to be the IP address
with IP underscore at the start of it.
You have to give it a manual IP address.
The device doesn't do DHCP,
because if it did DHCP,
it would get a random address each time.
And then how would you know
what address to print to?
So the user of this has got to
understand IP addresses and subnets.
And they've got to know how to assign
an address that's on their subnet,
but not one that's going to be
assigned by their DHCP server.
This is just horrible.
This company is torturing
their customers.
They won't put up with it forever.
So when he called me about 11
o'clock and gave me this tale of woe,
I decided,
out of honest scientific curiosity,
to go and see what the
Apple experience would be.
I took my AirPort Express,
and we went around to his house,
plugged it in.
I went file print in Safari, and
So no printer selected.
I joined the right airport network,
and there's the printer.
Total time from plugging
in to the paper coming out,
90 seconds.
He said, well, what about Windows?
We downloaded Bonjour for Windows.
No restart required.
Ran the printer setup wizard.
Found the printer.
Total time from download to paper
coming out of the printer-- 90 seconds.
So it took him three minutes to get
this thing working on Mac and Windows.
So that's the lesson for all of you
here making hardware products and
software products that do networking.
The status quo may have been acceptable
to computer geeks in the past,
but it is a brick wall.
It's a barrier to growing this
market to a larger audience.
So this is the goal.
We all know what we want.
And there are products out there
today that demonstrate that.
How do you achieve this
in your network products?
There are three technologies,
and they're intentionally very,
very simple.
I won't go into them in great detail,
because we've covered that in
previous WWDC presentations.
But the summary is,
link local addressing gets
your device an address,
even if there isn't a DHCP server,
or it's misconfigured or defective.
Multicast DNS lets you look at
names when there isn't a DNS server,
or it's misconfigured.
Or maybe there is a DNS server,
but you as the user don't have access
to actually be editing the configuration
and putting names into that DNS.
And then the third layer
is service discovery,
where you don't even have to know
the name of the device in advance,
because you can browse
the network and say,
I want to print.
Who out there can give me that service?
From a software perspective,
if you're writing applications,
if you are offering a
service on the network,
you use the Bonjour operation
register--DNS service,
register service--and that
advertises your service on the
network so that clients can find it.
On the client side,
you have two operations.
You browse to get the list of services,
and when the user picks one,
you resolve to translate that
name service into its current
IP address and port number.
In a world of DHCP and
self-assigned link local addresses,
addresses can change,
and that's why resolve
is a separate step,
because the name stays the same,
but the address may
change from day to day.
So we have two flavors of Bonjour.
We have the LinkLocal
Bonjour and the WideArea Bonjour.
What characterizes the
LinkLocal Bonjour is that
it's absolutely bulletproof.
There is nothing to configure,
so it can't go wrong.
It's your safety net.
When all of the networking is broken,
Bonjour is there.
And if your device is
configured through a web page,
it's the bootstrap that lets the
user get to it to configure it
to fix whatever the problem is.
WideArea Bonjour uses
exactly the same register,
browse,
resolve APIs that you use with LinkLocal.
But by using a DNS server as
a central aggregation point,
it scales beyond the physical link
to quite literally the entire planet.
Last year when I was in London and
I was collaborating on some
documents with Mark Krockmull,
we used SubEtherEdit,
the multi-user document editor.
And we were 5,000 miles apart,
but our shared documents appeared
in each other's Bonjour list because
it was using WideArea Bonjour.
And that was the standard SubEtherEdit
unmodified inheriting the benefits of
WideArea Bonjour through the same APIs.
By now, Bonjour is something
that's readily available.
It's not something off in the
future the way it was when we
first announced it four years ago.
It's been on Mac OS for several releases.
Bonjour for Windows is
on its fourth release.
There are Apple and other open
source third-party implementations
for the Unix platforms.
There are new implementations
for little embedded devices.
And you can get Apple source
code from Darwin and use
that for whatever you want.
In terms of Apple software,
if it does networking, it uses Bonjour.
And it has become so much woven
into the Apple DNA now that nobody
would consider making a networking
product that didn't use Bonjour.
When somebody talks about networking,
they don't have to say TCP and
IP and ARP and Ethernet,
and they don't have
to say Bonjour either.
Lots and lots of third-party products.
I haven't tried to list all of them,
but just a selection of
some of my favorites.
Toast will share your
DVD burner over the network.
So from any machine,
you can burn to any other
machine's DVD burner.
SubEtherEdit-- really, really excellent
multi-user document editor.
And the real cleverness there is how
they solved user interface issues
of having multiple people editing
simultaneously so that as I'm typing,
you can be correcting
my spelling mistakes.
Bonjour is really just a tiny,
tiny aspect of that product.
But in many ways,
it's kind of the lubricant in the
machinery without which it would be
much harder to make the wheels turn.
When it comes to hardware, obviously,
desktop Macs, laptop Macs,
Apple base stations,
anything Apple does that has
TCP/IP networking does Bonjour.
And if Apple brings out future
products that do networking,
you can be sure they'll
do Bonjour as well.
When it comes to third-party products,
every printer from every
major printer manufacturer,
if it does networking, it does Bonjour.
We have network cameras.
We have home gateways.
I'm going to show you one today.
all of these products you've
probably seen yourself
If you are advertising or
discovering a network protocol,
you should register that type at
dnssd.org to make sure that it's
unique and no one else uses it.
And this is just a sample.
Last time I looked, there were over 300
service types in that list.
Some of them are very widely used,
like HTTP is implemented and
advertised by lots of devices
that have web servers in them.
Some of them are very specific.
A multiplayer game where your program
is the only implementation of that game,
you have a service type there
that's exclusive to you and
only used by your client.
So here's an example.
There's an open source software voice
over IP PBX program called Asterisk,
which is very popular on Linux and OS X.
And the latest version of Asterisk
advertises its settings using Bonjour.
And there's a tool I'm showing
you here called John's Phone Tool,
which is a dialer that runs on the Mac.
And this is the original
screen where you set it up.
You have to put in the IP address
and the core idea and the context.
And I don't know what
any of that stuff means.
Well, in the latest version,
there's a tab, Automatic Configuration.
When you click that,
it just all goes away.
You click on the menu.
It shows you the list of available
Asterisk servers on the network.
And from the text record
advertised by those servers,
it auto-configures all
the necessary parameters.
So all you need is a username, password,
pick the server, and you're connected.
Now, on a desktop machine with
a keyboard and a mouse,
configuring complicated stuff is a pain,
but it's not impossible.
This thing looks like a cell phone,
but it's actually not a cell phone.
It's a 802.11 Wi-Fi phone.
And this uses the standard voice over
IP protocols that asterisk support.
And configuring IP addresses and subnet
masks and all that nonsense on this
little keyboard is next to impossible.
So Hitachi are going to be shipping the
next model of this phone with Bonjour.
And there's a lot of demand
from their resellers in Europe,
actually, for this one, the WIP5000,
that they're sick of the
pain of setting it up.
So we may even see a firmware
update to add Bonjour to this phone.
So now some reminders for developers.
Common mistakes we see.
Link local addressing
is really important.
Time and time again, we hear people say,
we love Bonjour, we love the discovery,
we love the browsing,
but our customers will
always have a DHCP server.
And the problem there
is the optimism again.
We're assuming everything will go right.
And when things don't go right,
that's when the customer
gets really frustrated,
and that's when it's most important
that we do everything that we
can to help things go smoothly
and get them out of that mess.
IPv6 has link local addressing
as part of the standard protocol.
So if you do v6,
you almost certainly have that for free.
I realize a lot of hardware devices
today don't support IPv6 yet
for memory resource constraints.
So if you only do v4,
then do IPv4 link local addressing.
And it really isn't as hard, I think,
as people imagine.
And here is one example of how
you might do just a quick and
dirty link local addressing,
good enough to be a safety net
to get the device on the network.
Take your standard DHCP client code,
but make it time out after five seconds.
So it says discover, discover, discover,
no answer from the server.
Well, it pretends there was an answer.
You just build a fake
ACK packet in memory,
put a random address in the packet,
and pass it back up to the stack and say,
yes, I got an address from the server.
And the high levels of the stack
will then configure that address.
If it's a proper implementation of DHCP,
it will check using ARP to make
sure that address is not in use.
And if it finds it's in use,
it will send a DHCP decline
to the server saying,
bad address, give me a different one.
Well, for link local address,
you can make the decline a no-op because
you have no server to send it to.
You just go back around
the loop and try again.
Discover, discover, discover, time out,
pick a new random address.
And developers sometimes
ask how long this will take.
They're worried it might take
a long time to get an address.
But remember,
there are 65,000 link local addresses,
and typically two devices on the network.
So the likelihood of you having
to try even more than once to
get an address is pretty small.
And if the alternative is
this or not working at all,
clearly this is definitely a
superior solution and almost no work.
So please, if you're making a product,
don't skip the link local addressing.
Thank you.
Another solution you can use,
which is used by some devices
like this Axis camera,
is
They configure two addresses.
And if you're using something
like embedded Linux,
this is very, very easy to do.
In their manual--because
historically they had a fixed
factory default IP address,
and the manual tells people to use that,
and it tells people to
reconfigure their PC,
very much like my print server story,
to be on the right subnet with
the factory default and blah,
blah, blah.
And they didn't want to have to
reprint the manual in the short term,
so they give it two addresses.
So it has a link local address,
which you can discover with Bonjour,
and if you're doing
it the old manual way,
then the other address is there as well.
So you don't have to have a big
flag day and uproot everything
and change all your documentation.
It's possible to add this while
supporting the old way at the same time.
Another plea to all your
hardware developers out there:
use Power over Ethernet.
When Power over Ethernet first came out,
it cost thousands of dollars for a hub.
This is the Netgear hub for
under $99 now if you shop around.
It's eight ports,
four are powered and four are not,
which makes perfect
sense for the home user,
because you don't need power to your Mac,
you don't need power to your
cable modem or your DSL modem,
so four powered ports is
ideal for running a few things
like an airport base station,
a PoE camera, something like that.
Netgear does a 16-port version
with eight powered for $200,
24 ports and 12 powered for $300.
So Power over Ethernet is really
now affordable for consumers,
and it erases really that last--
There's a reason to prefer USB,
because USB gives you
ease of use and power.
And now with Bonjour and
Power over Ethernet,
Ethernet gives you ease of use and power.
So we can now start making network
products that are as convenient and
easy to use as last year's USB products.
When you've made your product,
run the conformance test.
That's a great tool for
finding common coding mistakes,
which are corner cases you
may not have thought to test,
but they're corner cases
customers might run into.
So it's good to test those and fix them.
After you've done that, for no charge,
send in the results of
the conformance test,
and you can license the
Bonjour logo to go on the box.
And that badge on your box is kind
of--we will never see product makers
put a sticker on the box that says,
"We'll waste five hours of your
time." But this logo is the "We'll not
waste five hours of your time" badge.
So we encourage you to put that
on your products so the customers
know what they're looking for.
You can also, for no charge,
license Bonjour for Windows to put
on the CD or for download so that
your Windows customers get the
benefits of this ease of use as well.
Because we understand that when
you're doing engineering work
to put this in your hardware,
the management people often say, "Well,
this doesn't benefit the
bulk of our customers." Well,
with Bonjour, it benefits everybody
with Bonjour for Windows.
You can license that for no charge.
And when you install that,
you get the Bonjour icon in
the Internet Explorer toolbar,
just like you do in Safari.
You click it, you see the same list
of discovered web pages.
So if you've got a product
with an embedded web server
as its user interface,
advertise it with Bonjour.
Ship Bonjour for Windows and
Mac and Windows users get the
convenience of just discover it,
click it, connect,
don't care what the IP address is.
If you're making
Windows application software
using the Bonjour APIs on Windows,
contact us and let us know.
We are currently talking to some
PC vendors about bundling Bonjour for
Windows pre-installed on their PCs,
because they're tired of the grief
their customers go through as well.
So if you've got cool software
products for Windows that use Bonjour,
let us know.
And there might be opportunities
there for bundling a demo
version of your product
pre-installed on these Windows PCs.
Right, what's new since we met last?
A lot of you won't care a lot about this,
but those of you who do
care probably care a lot.
You will have heard this week
that the Multicast DNS Responder,
Darwin Project, the Bonjour code is now
licensed under Apache 2.0,
which fits in a lot better with
companies who have products where
the rest of the code is licensed
under BSD or GPL or Apache.
They now don't have to learn
a different license and try
to work out how it fits in.
We have a new feature, Private DNS.
When you're using wide-area DNS,
it works like standard
DNS today in Tiger,
which is DNS is a public database.
Ignoring issues like VPN and
encryption with standard DNS,
anybody can do a query and
everybody gets the same answer.
And one question we heard
from some developers was,
"What about privacy?" When I go around
the world and dynamically update my
host name to different IP addresses,
some kind of cyberstalker could be
looking at my IP address and see,
"Now it's at San Jose Airport.
Now it's at the W Hotel in New York.
Now it's in London." So we're adding
a feature where only authorized
clients can do a DNS query.
This is an extension to standard DNS,
but if you care about that issue,
this is a feature that will
be available in Leopard.
Yeah.
For those of you who are
implementing your own implementations
from the specifications,
instead of using the Darwin code,
we have updated the specifications.
These are getting pretty mature now.
There aren't major
differences from last year,
and in fact,
I predict by the end of this year,
these drafts will be stable enough.
There'll really be no
more changes to make,
and these probably will start
getting RFC numbers on them.
Application programming-- when
we shipped Bonjour in 10.2,
you could program it from C--
there was core foundation,
there was code code-- but basically,
C APIs.
In 10.3 and 10.4, we added Java APIs for
the Java programmers.
And in the Leopard build
that you all got this week,
we have two new things.
The Java APIs included the
standard register-browse-resolve,
but what they didn't include was
one particular call to register
specific individual records.
That was in the C API, but not Java.
We had requests.
We've added that.
We also added Ruby language bindings.
And those of you who have used Ruby will
know what a powerful language this is.
There's an interesting story
here about how this came to be.
A couple of years ago,
I was talking--giving a
tutorial at the O'Reilly
Open Source Conference in Portland,
Oregon, and a couple of Ruby developers
were in the tutorial,
and they got excited about Bonjour,
and we went to the bar
afterwards and had a drink,
and two hours later,
we had working Bonjour APIs for Ruby.
And in fact, their first attempt at it,
they kind of hit some brick
walls and struggled a bit,
and that was when they called me
and asked if I'd mind helping them,
and of course,
I was completely happy to do that.
And the mistake they made was
they'd failed to understand the
asynchronous nature of Bonjour.
And I mention this because
this is an important lesson
for everybody writing software.
It's a very, very common mistake for
developers to write code where
you start browsing the network,
and you wait for 10 seconds,
and you show some stupid animation like
a flashlight sweeping back and forth.
And then after 10 seconds,
you show what you found.
And at that instant,
the list is already becoming out of date
because you're not updating it anymore.
And that is just a
horrible user interface.
Don't do that.
All of the Bonjour operations
are asynchronous.
You do the call,
and it returns immediately.
And then as the results are found,
your asynchronous callback
routine will be called saying,
add this printer, add this printer.
Oh, remove that one.
It's gone away.
And your list updates live.
So what that means is that you can
have the list of services on the screen
in typically a tenth of a second,
faster than the user can tell.
But if a new printer
appears 30 seconds from now,
don't make them click a refresh button.
It just appears in the list.
Printer goes away.
It disappears from the list.
That's the experience we want.
And the Ruby guys said, aha,
now we get it.
And they quickly redid it.
And they came up with this
amazingly elegant API.
And I want to show a
little bit of real code.
We had a summer intern
working with the NFS group.
And those of you who went to the
NFS session will know that they have
a new feature called executable maps,
where instead of having a
static text file listing the
NFS service that you want to mount,
it will actually execute a script
to find the list of servers.
And the manager of that
group said to the intern,
you think you could do
something with Bonjour.
And this is not a code snippet.
This is actually the entire program
to do Bonjour browsing for NFS with
executable maps in Leopard.
And there's actually two programs here.
So this is the first one.
If you run the script with no arguments,
then it does a browse call.
And you see it says dnssd.browse
arguments do result.
That thing after the do result looks
like the body of a statement in C,
like an if or a for loop
or something like that.
But actually in Ruby, it's not.
That is an argument that's
passed to the function.
You can pass executable
code as an argument.
And what that function does is
every time it finds a result,
it executes that code.
And what that code does
is print out the result.
And the program that's running
the script reads from standard
out and gets the list of servers.
So that's how you get the list
that's dynamically discovered.
When you mount one of the servers,
it runs a script with an argument.
And in this case,
the script calls resolve,
looks up the address,
and returns nfs://hostname:port/path,
and you mount the server.
So that's the kind of thing
you can do with five minutes of
Ruby programming using Bonjour.
And that is on your WWDC Leopard
build that you have.
Now, for the final version of Leopard,
we're considering some other things.
And I'd like to get some
feedback from you guys here.
Who would like to see
Python support for Bonjour?
Thank you.
And you're allowed to
vote for more than one.
What about Pearl?
Do we have
OK.
We're also open to other suggestions.
If you have ideas for other languages
that you use that you'd like to
be able to access Bonjour from,
come to the microphones or come
and meet us at the Plugfest
tonight and let us know.
And remember, this is open source,
so you're welcome to write the code
yourself and contribute it as well.
And in fact,
that's what happened with Ruby.
We didn't write that code.
The Ruby developers wrote that,
and now it made it
into the Leopard build.
Little glimpse of what we're
planning to do in the future.
What we have for you today in the
WWDC build is a pretty neat feature,
and that's IPv4 link local addressing
simultaneously on all interfaces.
I've said before that
I'm a big fan of v6,
and I encourage you to do v6,
but we accept that today's
reality is that a lot of devices,
a lot of hardware devices,
don't yet do v6.
And one of the limitations of
v4 is if you have Ethernet,
an AirPort, an IP over FireWire,
in Tiger, only the first one in the list
gets a link local address.
So you plug in a FireWire cable, sure,
you've got IP over FireWire,
but you don't have an
address on that cable.
You only have a v6 address.
So in Leopard, we fixed that.
We actually are able to configure
link local addresses simultaneously
on all interfaces that need them.
And when you connect to
a link local address,
it will actually ARP on all interfaces
to see where that device is.
Now, because link local addresses are,
as the name implies, link local,
there is a possibility of a conflict
there that two devices may have the
same address on different interfaces.
But there are 65,000.
So that's a very rare likelihood.
And as I said,
it's a situation in Tiger where
it doesn't work at all.
In Leopard,
you've got a 99.9% chance of it working.
As an additional precaution,
in the very rare case that
you do get a conflict,
the Mac actually takes precautions
to try to avoid that happening.
When you connect your FireWire
device or your Ethernet cable
or you join the AirPort network,
when the device probes to
see if its address is in use,
if the Mac has seen that same address
in use on a different interface,
then it will deny the probe.
So it won't force any device
to change its address,
but when devices are probing,
it will try to encourage them to
pick non-overlapping addresses.
So the net result of this is
you can just plug the cables
together however you want,
and it will work by magic.
Future plans we have-- right now,
the Bonjour APIs, register, browse,
resolve, are all completely independent.
You do the call,
and you get back a socket
that delivers the events.
We've had requests from several
developers who are advertising
hundreds of services that they
don't want hundreds of sockets.
So we're working on extending the
API to let you share one socket
for aggregating all of the events
coming back from multiple operations.
Right now in Tiger,
if you use wide-area Bonjour to
advertise a service on your computer,
MDS Responder will talk to your
local NAT gateway and set up an
inbound port mapping for that service,
because there's no point advertising
it globally if you're behind a
NAT gateway and people can't reach you.
We've had requests from developers
to expose that functionality
as an API in its own right,
because maybe they're not wanting
to use wide-area Bonjour for
this particular application.
If they're writing a multiplayer
game that has its own game arena,
then they just want to
get the port mapping.
All right, we have some support for that.
That's something that we're hoping to do.
And the final thing that fits into
this whole picture is if you have a
machine at home and it's advertising
with a wide area of Bonjour and it
has a nap mapping so you can reach it,
then if it's sleeping,
you can't reach it.
So we're working on a system where when
you try to connect to a home machine,
your airport base station will
recognize that you're accessing a
machine that's sleeping and will
send the wake-on-land magic packet
to wake that device up for you,
all transparently, automatically,
with the existing Bonjour APIs.
If you advertise...
If you advertise a service
using the register call,
then those records are automatically
transferred to the sleep proxy so
that it knows the service you're
advertising and what machine has to
be woken up to provide that service.
[Transcript missing]
So first obvious thing is it
advertises its presence with Bonjour,
as you'd expect.
But the other neat thing they did,
which I didn't expect--and it's always
fun when people do creative things
that I hadn't thought of--is they said,
what about people who don't
have Bonjour web browsers?
So they actually have a Bonjour browser
built into the base station.
So if you're using
some other web browser,
as long as you know the
IP address of the base station,
which is, of course, a burden,
but as long as you know that
one piece of information,
you can click on Local Services,
and it shows you what is discovered
on the network using Bonjour.
So you can buy these gateways
right now from Ruckus.
The version with Bonjour will probably
be shipping two to three months.
Something you can buy today is these
little network cameras from Axis.
And when I showed my demo four years ago,
the camera was big and bulky,
and the image quality wasn't good,
and the frame rate wasn't good,
and of course,
the set of experience was a nightmare
because they didn't have Bonjour,
and they were expensive.
And how things have
changed in a few years.
The camera now is tiny.
It's about half the size
of a deck of playing cards.
It does 30 frames per second at 640, 480.
It's got really good image quality,
really,
really good low-light performance.
In fact, let's try connecting to that.
You can see.
So even in this low light, I mean,
I can barely see you guys,
but this camera, can see perfectly well.
And of course, it shows up with Bonjour.
I don't know what its IP address is.
I don't care what its IP address is.
And for a few dollars more,
they have a version with wireless.
with no Ethernet cable.
And I think we've got a lot of
wireless networking going on here,
but pretty good frame rate on
the wireless version as well.
So I'm really excited to see these
things that I imagined four years ago,
and now they're
commonplace retail devices.
OK, so let's switch back to the slides.
So I have shown lots of
Bonjour devices that are small.
This is pretty small.
Apple Base Station is pretty small,
including the power supply.
This is the site player, Telnet.
Serial port in this side advertises it
as Telnet service out on the ethernet.
So you can find it in terminal on OS X,
go to connect to server.
USB print server from IOgear.
That's pretty small.
In fact, the power brick is
bigger than the product.
But we have a new winner, and that is--
I film, and they have made about 10 of
these prototype alpha hardware,
and I got mine this week.
So I've got a treat for you guys today.
This is the first time this
has ever been seen in public,
and--
This is a one-gigabyte SD card,
standard kind of thing that
we have in digital cameras.
It's about the size of a postage stamp,
about not much thicker.
But as well as being a gigabyte SD card,
this has a processor, and RAM, and ROM,
and 802.11g, 45 megabit wireless.
So because I only just got this,
I actually haven't had
much time to try this.
So this is going to be a
bit of a Hail Mary demo.
I'm going to take this card.
I'm going to stick it in my camera.
And let's switch back
to the demo machine.
Let's try this.
So what this card is doing is
the processor noticed that a file
was written to the file system.
It powers up the wireless.
It looks for a network.
It looks for a machine to talk to.
And it transfers the
photograph that was just taken.
And we should see--
So you guys probably wonder
if this is a real live demo.
So to prove it's real,
can you put your hands in the air?
We'll try that again.
All right.
And to the left.
And to the right.
All right, so we'll see how long
those take to show up.
I think there's a lot of
wireless traffic here today,
which might be--
Oh, so one last question.
If you'd like one of these
wireless cards in your camera,
raise your hands.
I'll pass that on to the makers.
Now, I should emphasize,
this is this year's blue
sky vision of the future.
I can't predict when this might
make it into retail products.
You can see from that card,
it's a prototype card.
Doesn't even have a label on it yet.
So it probably won't be this year.
But I'm really hoping that next year,
this thing should be a standard product.
People have done cameras
with Wi-Fi before,
but they've always been
clunky and hard to use.
And it's what people call
the dancing bear syndrome,
which is that when you
see a bear dancing,
you're not expected to be
impressed by how well it dances.
You're expected to be impressed
that it dances at all.
And we need to get beyond
the dancing bear syndrome.
And I believe that this
product-- plug it in the camera,
snap the picture,
and it's in iPhoto-- this is
what we need to do to make
these kind of products useful.
The mistake that people make--and a
friend of mine is setting up his print
server--after the five-hour struggle,
he then wasn't really likely
to return it to Frize because,
well, it's working now, so why return it?
And the mistake people make is that they
assume that setup is a one-time task,
but it isn't.
You get a new computer,
you have to set it up.
You switch ISPs, you have to set it up.
A visitor comes to your house
and wants to print something.
You have to set up their computer.
You have a power failure,
and the stupid box loses its brain
and forgets all its settings.
You have to set it up again.
And I'm sure all of us have got
some piece of hardware lying
around at home that used to work,
and something went wrong,
and we just haven't found
the time to fix it again.
So the setup experience is important
not just for out-of-the-box,
but for continuing use and to
give the products a new life.
To give the products a
continuing life every time you
want to use it for something.
To be able to do what I did
here--stick it in the camera,
shoot a picture,
and have it work in 30 seconds.
That's what it takes to make
really compelling products.
So let's go back to the slides, please.
All right.
So our last little section
here is wide-area Bonjour.
We've had a lot of interest
in wide-area Bonjour,
and people ask,
how can I experiment with this?
How can I set it up and
play with it myself?
So wide-area Bonjour is built using the
standard Berkeley Internet Name daemon.
We have an extensions daemon that
Apple wrote that implements some
of the non-standard features.
Long-lived queries allow you to
do a query to the server saying,
I'm looking for printers.
But rather than polling the
server repeatedly to find out
if there are new printers,
you do a long-lived query
and tell the server,
here's my question.
And if the answer changes, let me know.
Update leases are something that
arguably should have been in the
standard DNS update specification.
And that is,
when you do a dynamic update to
put your address in the server,
there's no garbage collection.
If you unplug your machine and walk away,
that record stays there forever.
Update leases are very
much like DHCP leases.
There's a lifetime on the record,
and if you don't refresh it, it expires.
Private DNS is the third new feature
that I already told you about.
Now, you can set up all these
text files by hand,
but I'm going to show you
a different way today.
And if you don't know anything about
DNS and you've never done it before,
and you value time at
more than $15 an hour,
then this might be a useful
little simple tool to buy.
And this gives you a nice graphical
interface for setting up your DNS server.
And in the latest release this week,
he added the Bonjour button.
And when you click that,
a sheet comes down,
you fill in the settings,
and you have a wide-area Bonjour server.
Let's switch to the demo machine.
It's cutedgesystems.com.
So what I'm going to do here is
we're going to fill in the template.
And we're going to make a
fake domain called home.
And because we want normal
DNS queries to work,
we're going to tell it that--
Any queries it can't answer,
it should forward.
And you can find that out
if you type scutil --dns.
It gives you a list of your machine's
currently configured DNS service.
If you've learned them from DHCP and
you take the first address in that
list and put that in as the forwarder.
We need a name server
for our fake domain,
and that will be me.
We'll call it ns.home.
So that means we need
to make a host name.
Click plus, ns.home, IP address.
Well, that's my IP address.
We can find that by typing ifconfig.
And there is my IP address.
So let's paste that in.
And that's all we need to
set up the name server.
Let's create a Bonjour service.
When you click the plus button,
it puts in a template.
So here we have HTTP.
Here's the name it will appear as.
The target service being advertised
doesn't have to be on this machine.
You can advertise services
that exist anywhere.
So here we're going to use
apple.com as the web page.
Let's close that.
Let's start the DNS server.
What did I miss?
Oh, retry.
I think I erased that by mistake.
So we start the DNS.
We run Safari.
And--
And this is when we run normal Safari.
We're using--this is
linked local Bonjour,
and this is what it found.
Now, if we go into the network settings,
and we tell my machine--and you
can do this on any client machine,
and those of you in the audience,
you can try this out as well.
Join the Metro Flex NAT network,
and you want to set your
DNS server to be 135,
which is this machine.
Add home as a search domain.
And now, when we look in Safari,
Our wide-area page has been
advertised and discovered in Safari.
So I did that live on stage.
With DNS Enabler,
you can set up your own wide-area
Bonjour server in about 60 seconds.
Now understand this is just for testing.
Nobody else in the rest of the
world knows about that server,
which is why I had to manually put
the IP address in as my DNS server.
And clearly this doesn't scale.
If every organization
in the world did this,
you have a list this long of
manual IP addresses to put in.
So this is a way to experiment.
When you're happy with it
and you see how it works,
the next step is to get a sub-domain
delegated to you from your parent
domain or register your own domain.
There are many ways to do this.
But what I just showed you here
is an easy way to experiment.
And what we realized is we had been
unconsciously assuming that the
people setting up wide area bonjour
would be the DNS administrators.
And they would be completely
comfortable with running DNS and know
how to do it and add a few records.
But what we actually found is that
the people who are enthusiastic
about wide area bonjour are you guys.
In the room now,
which is not necessarily the
people running the company's
DNS server right now.
So you guys have to be able to
go to the DNS guys and explain
what you want done and why.
So this test setup is an easy
way for you to try it out,
get comfortable with it,
so that you are then equipped to go
and sell the idea to the operations
people running the DNS server.
Let's go back to the slides, please.
So, time to wrap up.
If you want more information,
Craig Keithley is our evangelist.
There is plenty of
information on the web page.
Last year,
I wrote a book because one of the things
that I realized--Tim O'Reilly said to me,
If you try to evangelize this
technology by explaining it in
person one company at a time,
you're going to spend the
rest of your life doing it.
So you need to reach a bigger audience.
So that was why I wrote this book,
so that when people say, "I love Bonjour.
It sounds great.
Where do I start?" I can
hand them a copy of the book.
And when I originally wrote it,
I was a bit worried that it was too thin.
It's only 250 pages,
and I kept trying to think
of more stuff to write.
And then somebody pointed out to me that,
in fact, that's the point of Bonjour.
Everything you need to know
about it is in 250 pages,
and its simplicity is its great strength.
So I actually checked at
Stasis up the road here,
just up on Market,
turn right about four blocks.
They have copies in stock,
so if you want something to
read on the airplane going home,
you can pick up a copy there.
In fact, they have an end cap display,
which is really cool.
I've never had an end cap
display in a bookshop before.
Come to our Plugfest tonight
at the Apple Campus Bash.
If you've got hardware
devices you want to try out,
debug, have help troubleshooting,
or just cool stuff you want to show us,
or even if you don't have devices,
if you just want to come along and have
a chat and socialize with the team,
we would love to see you in the
piano bar at the Apple Campus.
So, summary to take away
from today's session.
Bonjour is really, really easy to adopt.
It's a few lines of code in Ruby.
If you're putting in a hardware device,
especially if you run embedded
Linux or a similar platform like that,
you grab the Darwin code, you type make,
it works,
you take the rest of the afternoon off.
I've personally been on site at more than
one company where we do exactly that.
We check out the code, we build it,
it works first time,
we check it into their CVS server,
and then it's done.
We tell management it's
showing up in Safari,
it's showing up in Explorer,
and that's all it takes.
It makes your products easy
and reliable and a pleasure
to use instead of a torment.
And it's free from Apple.
So, I hope with the demos I've showed you
today and some of this cool hardware,
I've inspired you to make cool
hardware products that use Bonjour,
cool software that uses Bonjour.
If you're the users of network products
today that you wish to use Bonjour,
then tell those companies
that you want them to do that.
Tell them to look on the
web page for documentation,
contact Apple, get a copy of the book.